# Omega Workout Application

#### Deployed App
https://omega-wo.herokuapp.com/
---

#### App Description
1. Purpose

The app allows a user to:

- Understand the basics of exercise and how to set up an exercise program. 
- Use a provided YouTube link for each exercise to watch a video guide on how to perform that exercise properly. 
- Create separate workouts for each day of the week. 
- Each workout is made up of selected exercises that the user plans to perform. 
- The creation of a written workout makes the user more accountable and able to adhere to their proposed workout plan. 

2. How it Works 

- The front-end of the app was created using React. 
- Json Web Token was used to allow the user to create an profile with an email login. This allows the user to access their account and workouts anytime they revisit the app. 
- The app provides basic information on exercise programs, what the different types of exercise are, how to create an exercise program based on goals, create an exercise program with specific workouts. 
- Each exercise provided in the app is categorized by body part and has a youtube link to an instructional video on how the exercise should be performed properly. The exercise list is generated by mapping out a JSON file of exercises.
- The user selects each exercise one at a time and is able to add the exercise to the workout being created and can add the number of sets and repititions for the exercise.
- The user is able to create a different workout for each day of the week and can plan out their workouts a week in advance. 
- The workouts are saved using MongoDB and axios API calls are used to retrieve them to the front end. 
- The user can then access their workout on their smartphone or print out their workout and bring it with them to the fitness center. 

3. To use the APP: 

- Register on the app using your name, email and password. Then that email and password is used to login to the app. 
- The user is advised to read the "Exercise Basics" to understand how to set exercise goals and create a workout plan based on those goals. 
- The user then researches the individual exercises and can add their selected exercises to the workout that they are creating. Additional parameters of repititions and sets can also be added.  

---

#### Technologies Used
| | |
| ------ | ------ |
| **Server/Hosting** | Node.js; Express.js; Heroku |
| **Database/Routing** | MongoDB; mLab; Mongoose |
| **User Authentication** | JSON Web Token; Bcrypt |
| **UI/UX** | React; JavaScript; JSX; HTML5; CSS3 |

---

#### Authors
* Keaton Sentak - [Portfolio](https://keatonsentak.com) | [GitHub](https://github.com/ksentak)
* Justin Lampe - [Portfolio](https://pierrelampre.github.io/Responsive-Portfolio/) | [GitHub](https://github.com/PierreLampre)
* Ajay Kiri - [Portfolio](https://sahasra101.github.io/Ajay-Kiri-Portfolio/) | [GitHub](https://github.com/sahasra101)
